1. Your team has recently deployed a new application on Kubernetes, but you have noticed that it is experiencing frequent downtime due to pod failures. How would you configure Kubernetes to automatically recover failed pods and ensure high availability for the application?


2.What is Elastic Load Balancer (ELB)?
Elastic Load Balancing (ELB) is a load-balancing service for Amazon Web Services (AWS) deployments. 
ELB automatically distributes incoming application traffic and scales resources to meet traffic demand.
It also helps an IT team adjust capacity according to incoming application and network traffic. 
Load balancing divides the amount of work that a computer has to do among multiple computers so that users, in general, get served faster. ELB offers enhanced features including: Detection of unhealthy Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) instances. Spreading instances across healthy channels only. Flexible cipher support. 
Centralized management of Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) certificates. Optional public key authentication. Support for both IPv4 and IPv6.

3. Can you create two VPCs with the same subnet?
Can you create two VPCs in the same AWS account and region with same subject, let's say VPC1 with 10.0.0.0/8 and VPC-2 also with 10.0.0.0/8?

No, you cannot create two VPCs with the same subnet. Each subnet in a VPC must have a unique CIDR block.

4. You have an application running on your Amazon EC2 instance. You want to reduce the load on your instance as soon as the CPU utilization reaches 100 percent. 
How will you do that?

It can be done by creating an autoscaling group to deploy more instances when the 
CPU utilization exceeds 100 percent and distributing traffic among instances by creating a load balancer 
and registering the Amazon EC2 instances with it

5. Suppose, you hosted an application on AWS that lets the users render images and do some general computing. Which of the below listed services can you use to route the incoming user traffic? Classic Load Balancer Application Load Balancer Network Load balancer

Ideal Answer (5 star)
Application Load Balancer: It supports path-based routing of the traffic and hence helps in enhancing the performance of the application structured as smaller services. Using application load balancer, the traffic can be routed based on the requests made. In this case scenario, the traffic where requests are made for rendering images can be directed to the servers only deployed for rendering images and the traffic where the requests are made for computing can be directed to the servers deployed only for general computing purposes.

6. How would you deploy and orchestrate microservices using Kubernetes? Discuss the benefits of containerization for microservices, container orchestration 
features provided by Kubernetes, such as pod scheduling, service discovery, scaling, and rolling updates,
and how you would leverage them to manage microservices at scale.
